# Fake-Voter-Detection-System-Using-Digital-Image-Processing
In the development of any country democracy plays a vital role. Democracy system runs by a leader of the country who is selected by citizen of a country. Citizens have right to choose leader through election. Process of election consumes lots of manpower as well as resources and preparation is started many days before commencement of the election. During this preparation it may happen that involved people make an illegal arrangement with each other and in the existing system there are certain drawbacks such as damage of machines, dummy voting and problem of proper monitoring. Human face recognition plays an important role in applications such as video surveillance, human computer interface, and face image database management. The algorithm constructs eye, mouth, and boundary maps for verifying each face candidate. Face recognition also refers to the psychological process by which humans locate and attend to faces in a visual scene.. It is analogous to image detection in which the image of a person is matched bit by bit. Image matches with the image stores in database. Any facial feature changes in the database will invalidate the matching process. Through this paper we are aiming that voters do not need to wait for longer period of time as they do not have to wait in a queue and there is no time constraint; this system provides mobility for voters. The advantages of this proposed system is that,it is less time consuming compared to existing system. With this system man power can be reduced and there is no need to apply ink on the fingers. The proposed system is highly secure and no chances of data lost and also unlimited number of candidate information is being stored. A voter can vote only once, so voting multiple times or dummy voting shall be prohibited.
